docs/routing.md, before:

# Routing, layouts, and views

- [Overview](#overview)
- [Layouts](#layouts)
- [Views](#views)

## Overview

This project uses [Vue Router](tech.md#vue-router), which we initialize in `src/router/index.ts`, with routes defined in `src/router/routes.ts`. Inside the `src/router` folder, there are also two sub-folders, both containing route-specific components: `layouts` and `views`.

## Layouts

Every view component must use a layout component as its base and register it as `Layout`, as this convention helps us mock out layout components when testing views. Layouts usually aren't very complex, often containing only shared HTML like headers, footers, and navigation to surround the main content in the view.

## Views

Each view component will be used by at least one route in `src/router/routes.ts`, to provide a template for the page. They can technically include some additional properties from Vue Router [to control navigation](https://next.router.vuejs.org/guide/advanced/navigation-guards.html), for example to [fetch data](https://next.router.vuejs.org/guide/advanced/data-fetching.html) before creating the component, but I recommend adding these guards to `src/router/routes.ts` instead, as that behavior typically has much more to do with the route (and will sometimes be shared between routes) than it does the view component.

Commit message:

feat: update to newest dependences
BREAKING CHANGE:
- Migrated from Webpack 5 to ViteJS
- Vuex -> Pinia store
- All components and view components are rewrite to `setup` script
- Testing: jest -> vitest
- vue-meta -> unHead
- Added vue-i18n
- Remove generator
- Remove imagemin-lint-staged
- Generate yarn lockfile and bun.sh lockfile. If you don't use bun.sh you can freely to delete file
bun.lockb

docs/routing.md, after:

# Routing, layouts, and views

- [Overview](#overview)
- [Layouts](#layouts)
- [Views](#views)

## Overview

This project uses [Vue Router](tech.md#vue-router), which we initialize in `src/router/index.ts`, with routes defined in `src/router/routes.ts`. Inside the `src/router` folder, there are also two sub-folders, both containing route-specific components: `layouts` and `views`.

## Layouts

~Every view component must use a layout component as its base and register it as `Layout`, as this convention helps us mock out layout components when testing views.~ Use per App-level layout to prevent forgot to add layout to `view` components, Don't Repeat Your Self. Layouts usually aren't very complex, often containing only shared HTML like headers, footers, and navigation to surround the main content in the view.

## Views

Each view component will be used by at least one route in `src/router/routes.ts`, to provide a template for the page. They can technically include some additional properties from Vue Router [to control navigation](https://next.router.vuejs.org/guide/advanced/navigation-guards.html), for example to [fetch data](https://next.router.vuejs.org/guide/advanced/data-fetching.html) before creating the component, but I recommend adding these guards to `src/router/routes.ts` instead, as that behavior typically has much more to do with the route (and will sometimes be shared between routes) than it does the view component.
